=Connection decoration customization=

==Abstract==
There is the possibility to display a direction (plain arrow for example) on connectors. 
This information is only graphical and not semantic. This capability can be driven by a dedicated CSS syntax or through properties view.

==Requirement==
#The graphical representation can be set on source.
#The graphical representation can be set on target.
#Available decoration must be extensible through extension point.
#The source and target representation can be set with CSS.
#The list of available decoration types is in CSS autocompletion.
#The source and target representation can be set with properties view.
#The width of the decoration line is the same as the width of edge line.

==Usage==
There are two possibities to set connection decoration on existing link, with properties view or with CSS.
Available decorations are added through extension point, except for two which are:

*''none'': No decoration will be displayed on the source or target connection.
*''default'': The default decoration of the connection will be displayed.

===With properties view===
To use it activate the ''Advance Tabulation'': In Window > Preferences > Papyrus > Property views > ''Select Diagram Advanced Notation (plugin)'', Apply and close.
Select the edge to customize, 'Advance Tabulation'' is now visible under ''Appearance''. You can set source and target decoration.

===With CSS===
Attributes ''sourceDecoration'' and ''targetDecoration'' permit to set source and target decoration on link. The list of available decoration values is accessible with the autocompletion (Ctrl+Space).

==Extensibility==
New decoration can be added through extension point:<br>
''org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.common.connectionDecoration''<br><br>
Attributes:
*''name'':  The name of the decoration, used for the decoration values.
*''label'':  The label of the decoration, used for the user interface (ie Properties view).
*''class'': The class of the decoration to instanciate. Must implement ''org.eclipse.draw2d.RotatableDecoration''.

Added decorations will be available in advance properties tab and in the CSS autocompletion.

===Restriction===
The full compliance is guaranteed for ''Stereotype Property Reference Link'' and for ''Connector Link''.