=Table of Contents=
==Requirements==
* Add Graphical Elements (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_010): 
The system shall be able to add new graphical elements in new diagrams or existing diagrams
* Add Graphical Compartments (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_011): 
The developper can add new compartments from a existed graphical element.
* Add new nodes (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_012): 
A developper can add new nodes in the diagram that no exist in the existed diagram or  add element by reusing existed shape.
* Add new child label  (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_013): 
A developper can add new child labels ( element that can be contained in a list compartment) in the diagram that no exist in the existed diagram or  add element by reusing existed child label.
* Add new border item (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_014): 
A developper can add new border items ( element that can be installed around the  shape) in the diagram that no exist in the existed diagram or  add element by reusing existed border item.
* Add new links  (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_015): 
A developper can add new links in the diagram that no exist in the existed diagram or  add element by reuse existed links.
* Reuse representations from diagram (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_016): 
It must be able to reuse rperesentations from existed diagrams
* Drop of new Elements (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_020): 
New Elements can be dropped from the model explorer.
* Assistant (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_030): 
The new element must be created by using assistant mechanism
* Creation from the palette (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_040): 
Elements can be created fom the palette
* Non impact on parent diagrams (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_050): 
the inheridted diagram must not impact parent diagram by addin the new compartments.
* ExpransionModel (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_060): 
The expansion of diagram has to be a model and be interpreted
* The model has to be well-built (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_061): 
When the model is done, the ystem has to ensure that it can be correctly interpreted.
* Expanded diagrams viewed with original editor (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_070): 
The original diagram must be view in original diagram, exteernal element must have a predefined shape.
It cannot be implemented for the version Mars
* CSS driven (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_080): 
The added element must be driven by CSS
* View point relation (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_090): 
The new specialization editor must benefit of all specializations.
* Loading at runtime (id=org.eclipse.papyrus.infra.gmfdiag.expansion.Req_0100): 
An expansion model must be able to load during runtime, not only with extension point.
It allow to be tested by Junit Tests.

